---
id: refund-payments
title: Refunding Payments
sidebar_label: Refunding Payments
hide_title: false
description: Learn how to refund payments in our PicPay 1-Click solution
keywords: 
- PicPay 1-Click
- Refund
- Login
---

## About this guide

In this guide, we will describe the step-by-step process for you to request refunds for payments generated by our logged-in payment solution.

## Before Starting

Before processing online payments by our **PicPay 1-Click** solution, you must have a valid, non-expired access_token. You can check how to generate your tokens [in this article](/one-click/guides/oauth2-flow).

## How It works

### Authentication

In addition to the `access_token`, generated dynamically, the payment end-point needs an `Api-Key` that will be informed with your `client_id` and `client_secret`.

:::caution about the Api-Key
The `Api-Key` must not be shared in any way and must be stored securely on their servers.
 
:::

### Requesting a refund of a charge to the user's wallet

The refund request must be generated with the `transaction_id` or `reference_id` by the end-point `v1/payments/refund`, indicating the amount to be refunded in the body of the request. In the example below, we are requesting a refund of BRL 3.00 in the user's wallet.

:::info Information
The `transaction_id` is generated when creating the payment.
:::

```bash
curl --location 'https://api.picpay.com/v1/payments/refund' \
--header 'Api-Key: {{api_key}}' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
--header 'x-Idempotency-Key: {{idempotency_key}}' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
  "value": 3,
  "transaction_id": "daef8a44-b408-4df1-b726-c579723f1116",
  "reference_id": "f997bbef-8e17-4e59-b1a9-de1fe1dedd51"
}'
```

If the request is successfully processed, it will return an HTTP code 200

#### How will the refund be made?

The balance will be returned to the same place where the funds originated:

- If the transaction was made by credit card, it will be reversed on the card;
- If the transaction was made in the balance, the balance will return to the customer's wallet;
- If the transaction is mixed (Balance + Card), part will return as balance in the wallet and part will be reversed on the card;

#### Error messages

We do not report error codes in the chargeback process. We only inform if the transaction was reversed or not. Example:

```json
{
    "message": "Transaction could not be refund"
}
```

## Next Steps

- [Consulting user informations](/one-click/guides/user-info);

## Getting help
We hope this article has helped! If you have any questions, you can consult our FAQ or contact us by email:
relacionamento-negocios@picpay.com.